# CREx_SlopeTool

A set of scripts allowing the user to interactively select a temporal region of interest (ROI) within the grand average (GA) erp (mean across all subjects) and to extract the peaks and minima within the temporal window and calculate the minima-to-peak slopes. The temporal ROI can be selected interactively on the GA-ERP plot for a single electrode presenting a number of ERP signals corresponding to the defined number of experimental conditions. Once a temporal ROI is selected, the minima, peak and slope data for all electrodes is calculated both for the GA-ERP and subject-level ERPs. For each experimenal condition, a figure presenting the selected temporal ROI for all electrodes opens. Clicking on an individual electrode plot will, in turn, open another figure presenting in detail the minima,peak and slope data for the corresponding electrode as well as the "modeled" signal segment.
To run call the script, "CREx_ERPslopeAmp_calc in the Matlab command window.

The envelope of the selected GA-ERP "modeled" using cubic B-spline interpolation is compared against the individual subject-level ERPs modeled also using cubin B-spline interpolation. The dis-similarity between the modeled GA-ERP and individual subject ERPs (also modeled using cubic B-spline) is quantified by spearman's correlation and dynamic time warping (DTW) similarity or the length of the shortest path between the two signal being compared. The aim of this is to explore the robustness of the effect being analysed. Note that the DTW function (dtw.m) is based on that by Quan Wang 2013. The DTW similarity and spearman's coefficient data is pesented on a bar graph, in which each corresponds to the similarity measure for each subject. To view in the detail the comparison between the GA-ERP and the subject-level ERP one can select the corresponding bar in the bar graph.

Note that this tool is still under construction to allow the user to load datasets and define condition names, subject and electrode number without needing to access the underlying code. 

